reactive-jhipster/demo.adoc, before:

:experimental:
// Define unicode for Apple Command key.
:commandkey: &#8984;
:toc: macro

== Reactive Java Microservices with JHipster Demo Steps

Today, I'd like to show you how to use the JHipster 7 to create a reactive Java microservices architecture with Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Cloud Gateway, and Spring WebFlux.

**Prerequisites:**

- https://adoptopenjdk.net/[Java 11]+
- https://nodejs.org/[Node 14]+
- https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/[Docker]

toc::[]

=== Build a Reactive Java Microservices Architecture

In this demo, I'll show you how to generate a microservice architecture that uses OAuth 2.0, an API gateway, and two microservices (a blog and a store). The gateway will use PostgreSQL with R2DBC, the blog will use Neo4j, and the store will use MongoDB.

. Install JHipster 7:
+
[source,shell]
----
npm i -g generator-jhipster@beta
----

. Create a directory called `reactive-stack` and initialize `git`.
+
[source,shell]
----
take reactive-stack # mkdir reactive-stack && cd reactive-stack
git init # initialize git, so apps aren't created with their own .git
----

. Use the JDL below to define your architecture and apps.
+
====
----
application {
  config {
    baseName gateway // <1>
    reactive true // <2>
    packageName com.okta.developer.gateway
    applicationType gateway
    authenticationType oauth2 // <3>
    buildTool gradle // <4>
    clientFramework vue // <5>
    prodDatabaseType postgresql
    serviceDiscoveryType eureka
    testFrameworks [protractor]
  }
  entities Blog, Post, Tag, Product
}

application {
  config {
    baseName blog
    reactive true
    packageName com.okta.developer.blog
    applicationType microservice // <6>
    authenticationType oauth2
    buildTool gradle
    databaseType neo4j
    devDatabaseType neo4j
    prodDatabaseType neo4j
    enableHibernateCache false
    serverPort 8081
    serviceDiscoveryType eureka
  }
  entities Blog, Post, Tag
}

application {
  config {
    baseName store
    reactive true
    packageName com.okta.developer.store
    applicationType microservice
    authenticationType oauth2
    buildTool gradle
    databaseType mongodb
    devDatabaseType mongodb
    prodDatabaseType mongodb
    enableHibernateCache false
    serverPort 8082
    serviceDiscoveryType eureka
  }
  entities Product
}

entity Blog {
  name String required minlength(3)
  handle String required minlength(2)
}

entity Post {
  title String required
  content TextBlob required
  date Instant required
}

entity Tag {
  name String required minlength(2)
}

entity Product {
  title String required
  price BigDecimal required min(0)
  image ImageBlob
}

relationship ManyToOne {
  Blog{user(login)} to User
  Post{blog(name)} to Blog
}

relationship ManyToMany {
  Post{tag(name)} to Tag{post}
}

paginate Post, Tag with infinite-scroll
paginate Product with pagination

microservice Product with store
microservice Blog, Post, Tag with blog

deployment { // <7>
  deploymentType docker-compose
  appsFolders [gateway, blog, store]
  dockerRepositoryName "mraible"
}
----
<.> The first app is an API gateway.
<.> Because the gateway is reactive, it'll use Spring Cloud Gateway.
<.> The gateway and microservice apps must use the same authentication type.
<.> Use Gradle, because a lot of y'all love it.
<.> Vue support is new in JHipster 7, let's use it!
<.> Make sure and specify `microservice` as the application type for the blog and store apps.
<.> JDL allows you to create Docker Compose and Kubernetes deployments too!
====
+
TIP: You can find additional JDL samples on GitHub in the https://github.com/jhipster/jdl-samples[jdl-samples repository].

. Import this architecture definition and generate `gateway`, `blog`, and `store` apps.
+
[source,shell]
----
jhipster jdl reactive-ms.jdl
----
+
As part of this process, several Docker Compose files are generated for you. These allow you to run databases, the https://www.jhipster.tech/jhipster-registry/[JHipster Registry] (for service discovery), https://www.keycloak.org/[Keycloak] (for identity), all with Docker.

=== Run Your Reactive Java Microservices

. Open a terminal and run the following commands to start Keycloak, PostgreSQL, and the JHipster Registry.
+
[source,shell]
----
cd gateway
docker-compose -f src/main/docker/keycloak.yml up -d #jhkeycloakup
docker-compose -f src/main/docker/postgresql.yml up -d #jhpostgresqlup
docker-compose -f src/main/docker/jhipster-registry.yml up -d #jhregistryup
./gradlew
----
+
TIP: JHipster has a https://www.jhipster.tech/oh-my-zsh/[Oh My ZSH! plugin] that I highly recommend. It provides aliases for starting Docker containers and is a real time-saver. I've included these commands as comments above.

. Open a new terminal window, start the blog app's Neo4j database, and then the app itself.
+
[source,shell]
----
cd ../blog
docker-compose -f src/main/docker/neo4j.yml up -d #jhneo4jup
./gradlew
----

. Open another terminal window, start the store app's MongoDB database, and the microservice.
+
[source,shell]
----
cd ../store
docker-compose -f src/main/docker/mongodb.yml up -d #jhmongoup
./gradlew
----

. Open `http://localhost:8080` in your favorite browser. You should be able to login with `admin/admin` as credentials.

. To prove everything works, you can run `npm run e2e` in the gateway project's directory. This will run a number of end-to-end tests with https://www.protractortest.org/[Protractor].
+
NOTE: JHipster has support for https://www.cypress.io/[Cypress], but it https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/12686[doesn't work with Okta] yet.

=== Prepare Your Reactive Java Stack for Production

Keycloak is a superb open source identity provider. It has excellent support for OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) and easily runs in a Docker container. I greatly appreciate Keycloak's ease-of-use. I also ❤️ Spring Security's OAuth and OIDC support.

Spring Security makes it so you only need to override three properties to switch from Keycloak to Okta!

Spring Cloud Gateway makes it easy to relay an access token between a gateway and microservices. It's just five lines of YAML:

[source,yaml]
----
spring:
  cloud:
    gateway:
      default-filters:
        - TokenRelay
----

. Install the https://cli.okta.com[Okta CLI] and run `okta register`.

. In the gateway project's directory, run the command below. Accept the default redirect URIs.
+
[source,shell]
----
okta apps create jhipster
----

==== Update the JHipster Registry to Distribute OIDC Configuration

Spring Cloud Config allows you to distribute Spring's configuration between apps. In this section, you'll configure JHipster's Spring Security settings to use Okta across all your services.

. Add the following YAML to `gateway/src/main/docker/central-server-config/localhost-config/application.yml`. You can find the values for each property in the `.okta.env` file.
+
[source,yaml]
----
spring:
  security:
    oauth2:
      client:
        provider:
          oidc:
            issuer-uri: https://<your-okta-domain>/oauth2/default
        registration:
          oidc:
            client-id: <client-id>
            client-secret: <client-secret>
----

. Save your changes and restart the JHipster Registry:
+
[source,shell]
----
jhregistrydown
jhregistryup
----

. Use kbd:[Ctrl + C] to kill all your `./gradlew` processes and start them again.

. Open an incognito window, go to `http://localhost:8080`, and sign in. Rejoice that using Okta for authentication works!

. If you're feeling lucky, you can set your Okta credentials as environment variables and run end-to-end tests (from the `gateway` directory).
+
[source,shell]
----
export E2E_USERNAME=<your-username>
export E2E_PASSWORD=<your-password>
npm run e2e
----

=== Create Docker Images for Your Microservice Apps

. Stop all your apps with kbd:[Ctrl + C]. Stop all your Docker instances too.
+
[source,shell]
----
docker stop $(docker ps -a -q)
----
+
TIP: Bump up the memory and CPU that Docker uses in Docker > Preferences > Resources. I have my Docker preferences set to 6 CPUs and 12GB of RAM.

. To run your reactive stack with Docker Compose, you need to create Docker images for each app. In your three different app directories, run the following Gradle command:
+
[source,shell]
----
./gradlew -Pprod bootJar jibDockerBuild
----

=== Run Your Microservices Stack with Docker Compose

Once your Docker containers are finished building, you'll want to add your Okta settings to Spring Cloud Config in JHipster Registry.

. Open `docker-compose/docker-compose.yml` in your favorite IDE and remove the Keycloak image at the bottom. You can leave it if you like, but it won't be used in this example.

. Update `docker-compose/central-server-config/application.yml` to contain your OIDC settings that you want to share with all your microservices.
+
[source,yaml]
----
spring:
  security:
    oauth2:
      client:
        provider:
          oidc:
            issuer-uri: https://<your-okta-domain>/oauth2/default
        registration:
          oidc:
            client-id: <client-id>
            client-secret: <client-secret>
----

. In the `docker-compose` directory, run the following command to start all your containers.
+
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose up
----

. Open `http://localhost:8080`, sign in, and access all of your microservices. Pretty slick, eh?! 🤓

== What About Kotlin Microservices?

JHipster supports Kotlin-based microservices thanks to its https://github.com/jhipster/jhipster-kotlin[Kotlin blueprint], supported by https://github.com/sendilkumarn[Sendil Kumar N].

You can install it using npm:

[source,shell]
----
npm install -g generator-jhipster-kotlin
----

Then, use `khipster jdl reactive-ms` to create the same stack you did above with Kotlin.

NOTE: At the time of this writing, JHipster's Kotlin blueprint doesn't support JHipster 7. Watch the https://github.com/jhipster/jhipster-kotlin/releases[project's releases page] for updates.

== How Do I Deploy to the Cloud?

JHipster creates a cloud-native microservices architecture that can be deployed to many cloud providers. There's specific support for AWS, Microsoft Azure, Heroku, and Google Cloud Platform.

However, if you're doing microservices, you'll probably want to leverage Docker as you did in this tutorial. When your apps are containerized, they can be orchestrated with Kubernetes.

JHipster has a https://www.jhipster.tech/kubernetes/[Kubernetes] sub-generator that you can use to deploy it to the cloud. I'll cover this in a future demo.

In the meantime, you can watch a presentation that https://twitter.com/saturnism[Ray Tsang] and I did recently that shows how to deploy JHipster microservices with Kubernetes. If you start watching from https://youtu.be/AG4z18qePEw?t=2778[46:18], you'll see Ray show how to deploy to Google Cloud using Kubernetes.

++++
<div style="text-align: center; margin-bottom: 1.25rem">
<iframe width="700" height="394" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/AG4z18qePEw" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
++++

== Should You Go Reactive?

As with most software architecture decisions, it depends. Are you building CRUD apps? Then no, Spring MVC is good enough.

Are you dealing with massive amounts of steaming data and millions of customers? Then yes, reactive frameworks like Spring WebFlux might just save you $$$ on your monthly cloud bill.

What about https://wiki.openjdk.java.net/display/loom/Main[Project Loom]? Will it allow you to write regular non-reactive code that performs as good as reactive frameworks? I'm not sure. I'm betting on reactive for now. I think it's a good skill to have for Java developers.

== Stay Hip with JHipster!

⛑ Find the code on GitHub: https://github.com/oktadeveloper/java-microservices-examples/tree/main/reactive-jhipster[@oktadeveloper/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster].

👀 Read the blog post: https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/01/20/reactive-java-microservices[Reactive Java Microservices with Spring Boot and JHipster].

Commit message:

Add warning about Keycloak in hosts file

reactive-jhipster/demo.adoc, after:

:experimental:
// Define unicode for Apple Command key.
:commandkey: &#8984;
:toc: macro

== Reactive Java Microservices with JHipster Demo Steps

Today, I'd like to show you how to use the JHipster 7 to create a reactive Java microservices architecture with Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Cloud Gateway, and Spring WebFlux.

**Prerequisites:**

- https://adoptopenjdk.net/[Java 11]+
- https://nodejs.org/[Node 14]+
- https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/[Docker]

toc::[]

=== Build a Reactive Java Microservices Architecture

In this demo, I'll show you how to generate a microservice architecture that uses OAuth 2.0, an API gateway, and two microservices (a blog and a store). The gateway will use PostgreSQL with R2DBC, the blog will use Neo4j, and the store will use MongoDB.

. Install JHipster 7:
+
[source,shell]
----
npm i -g generator-jhipster@beta
----

. Create a directory called `reactive-stack` and initialize `git`.
+
[source,shell]
----
take reactive-stack # mkdir reactive-stack && cd reactive-stack
git init # initialize git, so apps aren't created with their own .git
----

. Use the JDL below to define your architecture and apps.
+
====
----
application {
  config {
    baseName gateway // <1>
    reactive true // <2>
    packageName com.okta.developer.gateway
    applicationType gateway
    authenticationType oauth2 // <3>
    buildTool gradle // <4>
    clientFramework vue // <5>
    prodDatabaseType postgresql
    serviceDiscoveryType eureka
    testFrameworks [protractor]
  }
  entities Blog, Post, Tag, Product
}

application {
  config {
    baseName blog
    reactive true
    packageName com.okta.developer.blog
    applicationType microservice // <6>
    authenticationType oauth2
    buildTool gradle
    databaseType neo4j
    devDatabaseType neo4j
    prodDatabaseType neo4j
    enableHibernateCache false
    serverPort 8081
    serviceDiscoveryType eureka
  }
  entities Blog, Post, Tag
}

application {
  config {
    baseName store
    reactive true
    packageName com.okta.developer.store
    applicationType microservice
    authenticationType oauth2
    buildTool gradle
    databaseType mongodb
    devDatabaseType mongodb
    prodDatabaseType mongodb
    enableHibernateCache false
    serverPort 8082
    serviceDiscoveryType eureka
  }
  entities Product
}

entity Blog {
  name String required minlength(3)
  handle String required minlength(2)
}

entity Post {
  title String required
  content TextBlob required
  date Instant required
}

entity Tag {
  name String required minlength(2)
}

entity Product {
  title String required
  price BigDecimal required min(0)
  image ImageBlob
}

relationship ManyToOne {
  Blog{user(login)} to User
  Post{blog(name)} to Blog
}

relationship ManyToMany {
  Post{tag(name)} to Tag{post}
}

paginate Post, Tag with infinite-scroll
paginate Product with pagination

microservice Product with store
microservice Blog, Post, Tag with blog

deployment { // <7>
  deploymentType docker-compose
  appsFolders [gateway, blog, store]
  dockerRepositoryName "mraible"
}
----
<.> The first app is an API gateway.
<.> Because the gateway is reactive, it'll use Spring Cloud Gateway.
<.> The gateway and microservice apps must use the same authentication type.
<.> Use Gradle, because a lot of y'all love it.
<.> Vue support is new in JHipster 7, let's use it!
<.> Make sure and specify `microservice` as the application type for the blog and store apps.
<.> JDL allows you to create Docker Compose and Kubernetes deployments too!
====
+
TIP: You can find additional JDL samples on GitHub in the https://github.com/jhipster/jdl-samples[jdl-samples repository].

. Import this architecture definition and generate `gateway`, `blog`, and `store` apps.
+
[source,shell]
----
jhipster jdl reactive-ms.jdl
----
+
As part of this process, several Docker Compose files are generated for you. These allow you to run databases, the https://www.jhipster.tech/jhipster-registry/[JHipster Registry] (for service discovery), https://www.keycloak.org/[Keycloak] (for identity), all with Docker.

=== Run Your Reactive Java Microservices

. Open a terminal and run the following commands to start Keycloak, PostgreSQL, and the JHipster Registry.
+
[source,shell]
----
cd gateway
docker-compose -f src/main/docker/keycloak.yml up -d #jhkeycloakup
docker-compose -f src/main/docker/postgresql.yml up -d #jhpostgresqlup
docker-compose -f src/main/docker/jhipster-registry.yml up -d #jhregistryup
./gradlew
----
+
TIP: JHipster has a https://www.jhipster.tech/oh-my-zsh/[Oh My ZSH! plugin] that I highly recommend. It provides aliases for starting Docker containers and is a real time-saver. I've included these commands as comments above.

. Open a new terminal window, start the blog app's Neo4j database, and then the app itself.
+
[source,shell]
----
cd ../blog
docker-compose -f src/main/docker/neo4j.yml up -d #jhneo4jup
./gradlew
----

. Open another terminal window, start the store app's MongoDB database, and the microservice.
+
[source,shell]
----
cd ../store
docker-compose -f src/main/docker/mongodb.yml up -d #jhmongoup
./gradlew
----
+
[CAUTION]
====
To make Keycloak work, you need to add the following line to your hosts file (`/etc/hosts` on Mac/Linux, `c:\Windows\System32\Drivers\etc\hosts` on Windows).

----
127.0.0.1	keycloak
----

This is because you will access your application with a browser on your machine (which is named localhost, or `127.0.0.1`), but inside Docker, it will run in its own container, which is named `keycloak`.
====

. Open `http://localhost:8080` in your favorite browser. You should be able to login with `admin/admin` as credentials.

. To prove everything works, you can run `npm run e2e` in the gateway project's directory. This will run a number of end-to-end tests with https://www.protractortest.org/[Protractor].
+
NOTE: JHipster has support for https://www.cypress.io/[Cypress], but it https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/12686[doesn't work with Okta] yet.

=== Prepare Your Reactive Java Stack for Production

Keycloak is a superb open source identity provider. It has excellent support for OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) and easily runs in a Docker container. I greatly appreciate Keycloak's ease-of-use. I also ❤️ Spring Security's OAuth and OIDC support.

Spring Security makes it so you only need to override three properties to switch from Keycloak to Okta!

Spring Cloud Gateway makes it easy to relay an access token between a gateway and microservices. It's just five lines of YAML:

[source,yaml]
----
spring:
  cloud:
    gateway:
      default-filters:
        - TokenRelay
----

. Install the https://cli.okta.com[Okta CLI] and run `okta register`.

. In the gateway project's directory, run the command below. Accept the default redirect URIs.
+
[source,shell]
----
okta apps create jhipster
----

==== Update the JHipster Registry to Distribute OIDC Configuration

Spring Cloud Config allows you to distribute Spring's configuration between apps. In this section, you'll configure JHipster's Spring Security settings to use Okta across all your services.

. Add the following YAML to `gateway/src/main/docker/central-server-config/localhost-config/application.yml`. You can find the values for each property in the `.okta.env` file.
+
[source,yaml]
----
spring:
  security:
    oauth2:
      client:
        provider:
          oidc:
            issuer-uri: https://<your-okta-domain>/oauth2/default
        registration:
          oidc:
            client-id: <client-id>
            client-secret: <client-secret>
----

. Save your changes and restart the JHipster Registry:
+
[source,shell]
----
jhregistrydown
jhregistryup
----

. Use kbd:[Ctrl + C] to kill all your `./gradlew` processes and start them again.

. Open an incognito window, go to `http://localhost:8080`, and sign in. Rejoice that using Okta for authentication works!

. If you're feeling lucky, you can set your Okta credentials as environment variables and run end-to-end tests (from the `gateway` directory).
+
[source,shell]
----
export E2E_USERNAME=<your-username>
export E2E_PASSWORD=<your-password>
npm run e2e
----

=== Create Docker Images for Your Microservice Apps

. Stop all your apps with kbd:[Ctrl + C]. Stop all your Docker instances too.
+
[source,shell]
----
docker stop $(docker ps -a -q)
----
+
TIP: Bump up the memory and CPU that Docker uses in Docker > Preferences > Resources. I have my Docker preferences set to 6 CPUs and 12GB of RAM.

. To run your reactive stack with Docker Compose, you need to create Docker images for each app. In your three different app directories, run the following Gradle command:
+
[source,shell]
----
./gradlew -Pprod bootJar jibDockerBuild
----

=== Run Your Microservices Stack with Docker Compose

Once your Docker containers are finished building, you'll want to add your Okta settings to Spring Cloud Config in JHipster Registry.

. Open `docker-compose/docker-compose.yml` in your favorite IDE and remove the Keycloak image at the bottom. You can leave it if you like, but it won't be used in this example.

. Update `docker-compose/central-server-config/application.yml` to contain your OIDC settings that you want to share with all your microservices.
+
[source,yaml]
----
spring:
  security:
    oauth2:
      client:
        provider:
          oidc:
            issuer-uri: https://<your-okta-domain>/oauth2/default
        registration:
          oidc:
            client-id: <client-id>
            client-secret: <client-secret>
----

. In the `docker-compose` directory, run the following command to start all your containers.
+
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose up
----

. Open `http://localhost:8080`, sign in, and access all of your microservices. Pretty slick, eh?! 🤓

== What About Kotlin Microservices?

JHipster supports Kotlin-based microservices thanks to its https://github.com/jhipster/jhipster-kotlin[Kotlin blueprint], supported by https://github.com/sendilkumarn[Sendil Kumar N].

You can install it using npm:

[source,shell]
----
npm install -g generator-jhipster-kotlin
----

Then, use `khipster jdl reactive-ms` to create the same stack you did above with Kotlin.

NOTE: At the time of this writing, JHipster's Kotlin blueprint doesn't support JHipster 7. Watch the https://github.com/jhipster/jhipster-kotlin/releases[project's releases page] for updates.

== How Do I Deploy to the Cloud?

JHipster creates a cloud-native microservices architecture that can be deployed to many cloud providers. There's specific support for AWS, Microsoft Azure, Heroku, and Google Cloud Platform.

However, if you're doing microservices, you'll probably want to leverage Docker as you did in this tutorial. When your apps are containerized, they can be orchestrated with Kubernetes.

JHipster has a https://www.jhipster.tech/kubernetes/[Kubernetes] sub-generator that you can use to deploy it to the cloud. I'll cover this in a future demo.

In the meantime, you can watch a presentation that https://twitter.com/saturnism[Ray Tsang] and I did recently that shows how to deploy JHipster microservices with Kubernetes. If you start watching from https://youtu.be/AG4z18qePEw?t=2778[46:18], you'll see Ray show how to deploy to Google Cloud using Kubernetes.

++++
<div style="text-align: center; margin-bottom: 1.25rem">
<iframe width="700" height="394" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/AG4z18qePEw" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
++++

== Should You Go Reactive?

As with most software architecture decisions, it depends. Are you building CRUD apps? Then no, Spring MVC is good enough.

Are you dealing with massive amounts of steaming data and millions of customers? Then yes, reactive frameworks like Spring WebFlux might just save you $$$ on your monthly cloud bill.

What about https://wiki.openjdk.java.net/display/loom/Main[Project Loom]? Will it allow you to write regular non-reactive code that performs as good as reactive frameworks? I'm not sure. I'm betting on reactive for now. I think it's a good skill to have for Java developers.

== Stay Hip with JHipster!

⛑ Find the code on GitHub: https://github.com/oktadeveloper/java-microservices-examples/tree/main/reactive-jhipster[@oktadeveloper/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster].

👀 Read the blog post: https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/01/20/reactive-java-microservices[Reactive Java Microservices with Spring Boot and JHipster].
