jhipster/demo.adoc, before:

:experimental:
// Define unicode for Apple Command key.
:commandkey: &#8984;

= Java Microservices with Spring Cloud Config and JHipster

The brackets at the end of each step indicate the alias's or IntelliJ Live Templates to use. You can find the template definitions at https://github.com/mraible/idea-live-templates[mraible/idea-live-templates].

== Create Microservices with JHipster

. Use https://start.jhipster.tech[JDL Studio] to create a microservices architecture using JDL (gateway, blog, and store)

.`apps.jh`
[%collapsible]
====
[source]
----
application {
  config {
    baseName gateway,
    packageName com.okta.developer.gateway,
    applicationType gateway,
    authenticationType oauth2,
    prodDatabaseType postgresql,
    serviceDiscoveryType eureka,
    testFrameworks [protractor]
  }
  entities Blog, Post, Tag, Product
}

application {
  config {
    baseName blog,
    packageName com.okta.developer.blog,
    applicationType microservice,
    authenticationType oauth2,
    prodDatabaseType postgresql,
    serverPort 8081,
    serviceDiscoveryType eureka
  }
  entities Blog, Post, Tag
}

application {
  config {
    baseName store,
    packageName com.okta.developer.store,
    applicationType microservice,
    authenticationType oauth2,
    databaseType mongodb,
    devDatabaseType mongodb,
    prodDatabaseType mongodb,
    enableHibernateCache false,
    serverPort 8082,
    serviceDiscoveryType eureka
  }
  entities Product
}

entity Blog {
  name String required minlength(3),
  handle String required minlength(2)
}

entity Post {
  title String required,
  content TextBlob required,
  date Instant required
}

entity Tag {
  name String required minlength(2)
}

entity Product {
  title String required,
  price BigDecimal required min(0),
  image ImageBlob
}

relationship ManyToOne {
  Blog{user(login)} to User,
  Post{blog(name)} to Blog
}

relationship ManyToMany {
  Post{tag(name)} to Tag{post}
}

paginate Post, Tag with infinite-scroll
paginate Product with pagination

microservice Product with store
microservice Blog, Post, Tag with blog

// will be created under 'docker-compose' folder
deployment {
  deploymentType docker-compose
  appsFolders [gateway, blog, store]
  dockerRepositoryName "jmicro"
  consoleOptions [zipkin]
}
----
====
[start=2]
. Run `jhipster import-jdl apps.jh`

. Create an aggregator `pom.xml` in the root directory

  <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
  <project xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
      xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 http://maven.apache.org/xsd/maven-4.0.0.xsd">
      <modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>
      <groupId>com.okta.developer</groupId>
      <artifactId>jhipster-parent</artifactId>
      <version>1.0.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
      <packaging>pom</packaging>
      <name>jhipster-parent</name>
      <modules>
          <module>gateway</module>
          <module>blog</module>
          <module>store</module>
      </modules>
  </project>

. Convert gateway to be a PWA

. Create Docker images for Spring Boot apps

  mvn -Pprod verify com.google.cloud.tools:jib-maven-plugin:dockerBuild

. Run with Docker Compose

  cd docker-compose
  docker-compose up -d

. Mention you need a `hosts` entry for Keycloak

  127.0.0.1  keycloak

. Show JHipster Registry at `http://localhost:8761` and gateway at `http://localhost:8080`

== Configure JHipster Microservices to use Okta for Identity

. Create a web app on Okta, use `http://localhost:8080/login/oauth2/code/oidc` for redirect URI

. Add `http://localhost:8080` as a logout redirect URI

. Add your Okta settings in Spring Cloud Config's `docker-compose/central-server-config/application.yml`

  spring:
    security:
      oauth2:
        client:
          provider:
            oidc:
              issuer-uri: https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default
          registration:
            oidc:
              client-id: {yourClientId}
              client-secret: {yourClientSecret}

. Restart all containers using `docker-compose restart`

. Prepare Okta for JHipster: `ROLE_ADMIN` group, groups in ID token, and JHipster Registry's redirect URIs

. Demo JHipster Registry and gateway log in with Okta

. Show Lighthouse Score

. Finito! 🤓

== Learn More!

. GitHub repo: https://github.com/oktadeveloper/java-microservices-examples

. Blog post: https://developer.okta.com/blog/2019/05/23/java-microservices-spring-cloud-config

Commit message:

Remove live templates since there aren't any

jhipster/demo.adoc, after:

:experimental:
// Define unicode for Apple Command key.
:commandkey: &#8984;

= Java Microservices with Spring Cloud Config and JHipster

If you'd like to see a video version of this demo, you can [watch it on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ez7HMO60kE8).

== Create Microservices with JHipster

. Use https://start.jhipster.tech[JDL Studio] to create a microservices architecture using JDL (gateway, blog, and store)

.`apps.jh`
[%collapsible]
====
[source]
----
application {
  config {
    baseName gateway,
    packageName com.okta.developer.gateway,
    applicationType gateway,
    authenticationType oauth2,
    prodDatabaseType postgresql,
    serviceDiscoveryType eureka,
    testFrameworks [protractor]
  }
  entities Blog, Post, Tag, Product
}

application {
  config {
    baseName blog,
    packageName com.okta.developer.blog,
    applicationType microservice,
    authenticationType oauth2,
    prodDatabaseType postgresql,
    serverPort 8081,
    serviceDiscoveryType eureka
  }
  entities Blog, Post, Tag
}

application {
  config {
    baseName store,
    packageName com.okta.developer.store,
    applicationType microservice,
    authenticationType oauth2,
    databaseType mongodb,
    devDatabaseType mongodb,
    prodDatabaseType mongodb,
    enableHibernateCache false,
    serverPort 8082,
    serviceDiscoveryType eureka
  }
  entities Product
}

entity Blog {
  name String required minlength(3),
  handle String required minlength(2)
}

entity Post {
  title String required,
  content TextBlob required,
  date Instant required
}

entity Tag {
  name String required minlength(2)
}

entity Product {
  title String required,
  price BigDecimal required min(0),
  image ImageBlob
}

relationship ManyToOne {
  Blog{user(login)} to User,
  Post{blog(name)} to Blog
}

relationship ManyToMany {
  Post{tag(name)} to Tag{post}
}

paginate Post, Tag with infinite-scroll
paginate Product with pagination

microservice Product with store
microservice Blog, Post, Tag with blog

// will be created under 'docker-compose' folder
deployment {
  deploymentType docker-compose
  appsFolders [gateway, blog, store]
  dockerRepositoryName "jmicro"
  consoleOptions [zipkin]
}
----
====
[start=2]
. Run `jhipster import-jdl apps.jh`

. Create an aggregator `pom.xml` in the root directory

  <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
  <project xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
      xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 http://maven.apache.org/xsd/maven-4.0.0.xsd">
      <modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>
      <groupId>com.okta.developer</groupId>
      <artifactId>jhipster-parent</artifactId>
      <version>1.0.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
      <packaging>pom</packaging>
      <name>jhipster-parent</name>
      <modules>
          <module>gateway</module>
          <module>blog</module>
          <module>store</module>
      </modules>
  </project>

. Convert gateway to be a PWA

. Create Docker images for Spring Boot apps

  mvn -Pprod verify com.google.cloud.tools:jib-maven-plugin:dockerBuild

. Run with Docker Compose

  cd docker-compose
  docker-compose up -d

. Mention you need a `hosts` entry for Keycloak

  127.0.0.1  keycloak

. Show JHipster Registry at `http://localhost:8761` and gateway at `http://localhost:8080`

== Configure JHipster Microservices to use Okta for Identity

. Create a web app on Okta, use `http://localhost:8080/login/oauth2/code/oidc` for redirect URI

. Add `http://localhost:8080` as a logout redirect URI

. Add your Okta settings in Spring Cloud Config's `docker-compose/central-server-config/application.yml`

  spring:
    security:
      oauth2:
        client:
          provider:
            oidc:
              issuer-uri: https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default
          registration:
            oidc:
              client-id: {yourClientId}
              client-secret: {yourClientSecret}

. Restart all containers using `docker-compose restart`

. Prepare Okta for JHipster: `ROLE_ADMIN` group, groups in ID token, and JHipster Registry's redirect URIs

. Demo JHipster Registry and gateway log in with Okta

. Show Lighthouse Score

. Finito! 🤓

== Learn More!

. GitHub repo: https://github.com/oktadeveloper/java-microservices-examples

. Blog post: https://developer.okta.com/blog/2019/05/23/java-microservices-spring-cloud-config
